Suggestions for Chapter 1 (#1)
mseri/hammech20: hm.tex

We will then move to study action--angle coordinates and integrability, and finally we will discuss perturbation theory.
On the latter, we will only briefly discuss resonances and mostly focus on KAM theory and the Nekhoroshev theorem.

Topics that I intend to add over time include: contact mechanics, non-holonomic mechanics/sub-riemannian geometry, numerical methods, rigid bodies, mathematical billiards, integrability via Lax pairs...

Last year there were two non-standard notational conventions that I decided to adopt from \cite{book:arnold}: $(\cdot,\cdot)$ denoted the inner products, also in Euclidean space when it corresponds to the standard scalar product, and $[\cdot,\cdot]$ the exterior product, also in $\R^3$ where I could have instead used the cross product. \emph{I have revisited my choice here and this year I will try to update the notation to something closer to my analysis on manifolds notes \cite{lectures:aom:seri}.}

Please don't be afraid to send me comments to improve the course or the text and to fix the many typos that will surely be in this first draft. They will be very appreciated.

> I am extremely grateful to Albert \v{S}ilvans, \emph{your name here}, for their careful reading of the notes and their useful comments and corrections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I am extremely grateful to Albert \v{S}ilvans for their careful reading of the notes and their useful comments and corrections.
```

and the evolution of the system is described by the critical points with respect to $X_0$ of $S$ on the space of $\gamma \in X$ with prescribed endpoints.

\begin{theorem}

>     Let $L = L(q, \dot q, t) : T\R^{n}\times\R \to \R$ be differentiable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Let $L = L(q, \dot q, t) : T\R^{n}\times\R = R^{n}\times R^{n}\times R \to \R$ be differentiable.
```

In this case I was explicit on purpose

    \begin{equation}
        \begin{split}
            S(\gamma + h) &= \int_{t_1}^{t_2} L(\gamma + h, \dot \gamma + \dot h, s) \d s \\

>             &= \int_{t_1}^{t_2} % not clear how this step happens, specifically where the inner product comes from, maybe a comment on the procedure beforehand

Reviewer: That is practically mutlivariate Taylor theorem: in R^n these are the Jacobian with respect to the q and qdot variables (so simple row vectors in this case). I was using the scalar product, maybe abusing too much the notation, to emphasize this. Do you think modifying the text above to say `First of all observe that for small $h$, a Taylor expansion gives` (eventually dropping the scalar products) would clarify it enough ?

Author: I had guessed that some Taylor business was going on, though I was confused  with the notation indeed. The inner products in the extra terms are new to me, I haven't encountered this approach from my previous courses. I think your modification works good it explicitly mentions Taylor, perhaps also put multivariate to hammer in the idea, that way one has an exact term to google for, in case just "taylor" gives them calculus 1 material.

Reviewer: I add the comment on the upcoming version then, thanks!

        \end{split}
    \end{equation}

>     The differential $DS(\gamma): X \to \R$ can now be read from the equation above and is well-defined and is a bounded linear operator for all $\gamma\in X$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The differential $DS(\gamma): X \to \R$ can now be read from the equation above and is well--defined and is a bounded linear operator for all $\gamma\in X$.
```

\end{corollary}

\begin{proof}

>     For a non--degenerate lagrangian, the Euler-Lagrange equations can be rewritten in the form %by the implicit function theorem?

Reviewer: By computing the total derivative in the E-L equations and inverting the matrix `\Lambda` which appears as prefactor of the second derivatives
```suggestion
    For a non--degenerate lagrangian, a direct computation shows that the Euler-Lagrange equations can be rewritten in the form
```

Author: I think my issue is the Einstein notation specifically. We did not encounter it in AoM with Gert Vegter, nor am I young enough to have taken Multivariate analysis with Roland van der Veen. So I have a hard time following the indices. I think another students should look at this, or keep this question for the next batch of students next year

Reviewer: Oh yes, that is probably easier for students that took the new multivariable calculus or analysis on manifolds. It is worth adding a remark on Einstein's notation here though. I went into details on it in the recorded lecture, which may also help.

\begin{example}\label{exa:magnetic}
    Mechanical systems affected by an external magnetic field $\bm B$ can be described in the lagrangian formalism by adding a linear term in the velocities to a natural lagrangian \eqref{eq:mechlag}:
    \begin{equation}\label{eq:magLag}

>         \tilde L = L + \frac ec \sum_{i=1}^N \lag\bm A(\bx_i), \dot \bx_i\rag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        \tilde L = L + \frac ec \sum_{k=1}^N \lag\bm A(\bx_k), \dot \bx_k\rag.
```
We used k in all other places

You can see that there is a striking resemblance between the squared arc length elements and the lagrangian functions above.

Let's consider the more general situation of local coordinates $(q^1, \ldots, q^n)$ on a smooth manifold $M$.

> We will only recall the main terminology here, for a review of these concepts refer to \cite[Chapter 4.18]{book:arnold}, \cite[Appendix A]{book:knauf}, \cite[Chapter 4]{book:marsdenratiu}, your favourite book of differential geometry\footnote{Mine is \cite{book:lee}, which is freely accessible through the University library} or my beautiful\footnote{If I do say so, myself.} lecture notes \cite{lectures:aom:seri}.

Reviewer: 😆

\begin{equation}
    x(t) = \left( R_1 \cos(t + \phi_1),\, R_2 \cos(\omega t + \phi_2) \right).
\end{equation}

> This is contained in a rectangle $[-R_1,R_1]\times[-R_2,R_2]$. When $\omega$ is irrational, the trajectory fills the rectangle, whereas they are closed curves inside the rectangle when it is rational. % not always closed, the top right example in the figure corresponds to a rational omega but it is not closed.

Reviewer: It is a degenerate ellipse squeezed to a line, it does not really have endpoints. Maybe this could be mentioned in the caption, what do you think?

```suggestion
This is contained in a rectangle $[-R_1,R_1]\times[-R_2,R_2]$. When $\omega$ is irrational, the trajectory fills the rectangle, whereas they are closed curves inside the rectangle when it is rational.
```

Author: I think it's a good idea to put it in a comment, I'll do that.
